USER GUIDE

1. CONFIGURE THE ENVIRONMENT

Before running the application, create a .env file in the project root directory and add your Google Gemini API key.

Example:

GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_google_api_key_here

Use the .env file to provide API Key


2. ACTIVATE THE VIRTUAL ENVIRONMENT

Activate the virtual environment before running the application.

For Windows:

venv\Scripts\activate


3. INSTALL THE REQUIRED DEPENDENCIES

Install all required Python packages using:

pip install -r requirements.txt


4. START THE APPLICATION

Run the Streamlit application using:

streamlit run app.py

The application will open in a web browser.


5. UPLOAD DOCUMENTS

Use the document upload section to upload one or more documents.

The application currently supports the following file formats:

PDF
TXT
CSV
XLSX

The application validates:

Supported file types
Empty files
Maximum file size
Duplicate files

After successful validation, the uploaded document is:

Saved to the application
Loaded and processed
Cleaned
Split into smaller chunks
Converted into embeddings
Stored in the vector database

A success message will be displayed after the document has been successfully uploaded and processed.


6. ASK QUESTIONS

After uploading and processing the documents, enter your question in the chat interface.

The application will:

Validate the user query
Apply rate limiting
Check for potential prompt injection
Create a retrieval plan
Retrieve relevant document chunks using semantic search
Build context from the retrieved information
Use the LLM to generate a grounded response
Validate the generated response

The answer will be displayed in the application and added to the chat history.


7. RESET THE CHAT

Use the Reset Chat button to clear the current chat history.

This clears the displayed conversation history. The uploaded documents and vector data remain available.


8. IMPORTANT NOTE

The application is designed to answer questions using information retrieved from the uploaded documents.

If relevant information is not available in the uploaded documents, the application may indicate that the requested information could not be found.